         Women in Computer Science
         ----- -- -------- -------

A number of women have figured prominently in the field of computer science
even before the creation of electronic computers. Some of these early female
pioneers include:

   Ada Lovelace
      Ada lived in the 19th century, nearly 100 years before
      the Father of Computer Science, Alan Turing, created an
      abstract model of a computer in 1936. Being a woman, Ada
      was not allowed to attend the university and instead studied
      with tutors, including the mathematician and logician,
      Augustus De Morgan. She also worked with Charles Babbage and
      created an algorithm for calculating Bernoulli numbers, which
      was intended for his Analytical Engine, an early computing
      machine. Because of this work, Ada is considered the world's
      first programmer.  After viewing the Jacard loom, which used
      punch cards to control the weaving of elaborate tapestries,
      Ada realized that computing machines could go beyond mathematical
      calculations and be used for symbol manipulation as well.

   ENIAC Programmers
      During World War II, female math majors were recruited to program
      the ENIAC, the first electronic general-purpose computer. This was
      not a straight-forward task. First, the women had to solve the
      problem at hand (calculating ballistic trajectories, hydrogen bomb
      calculations, ...) on paper, then figure out how to manipulate the 
      computer's switches and cables to perform the calculations. Most of
      of these women went on to further contribute to the field of computer
      science -- their names are listed below:

         - Kay McNulty
         - Betty Snyder
         - Marlyn Wescoff 
         - Ruth Lichterman
         - Betty Jennings
         - Fran Bilas

   Grace Hopper
      Grace Hopper's career in the field of computing spanned 40 years.
      She was a programmer for the Mark I, another early computer, and
      helped develop the UNIVAC I. She advocated for computer programs
      to be written in an English-like language rather than machine or
      assembly code and invented the first compiler to achieve that goal.
      She was instrumental in the development of COBOL, a computer language
      that is still in use today. After retiring from the Navy, she spent
      the last 5 years of her life as a goodwill ambassador for Digital
      Equipment Corporation.
